# LITA_CAPSTONE_PROJECT 1

## PROJECT TITLE: SALES DATA ANALYSIS

## PROJECT OVERVIEW
This Data Analysis project aims to generate insight into the sales performance of a retail store inducing step to take for the betterment of the company. The analysis covers the sales overview for both 2023 and 2024, regional breakdown, product performance based on the quantity sold, and revenue generated and sales gotten over time (monthly and quarterly). The results reveals the top selling products, the regions which certain products sell better and the revenue generated by each product.

## DATA SOURCES
The primary source of data used here for this project is LITA Capstone Dataset.xlsx was obtained from the Incubator Hub. The table has an array of columns like OrderID, Customer Id, Product, Region, OrderDate, Quantity Sold and Unit Price and Total Sales.

## COLUMN DESCRIPTIONS
OrderID: A distinct identifier assigned to each order.

CustomerId: A distinct identifier for customers.

Product: Items for sale/sold. Region: The geographical location (e.g., North, South, East, West)

OrderDate: The date when the order was made.

Quantity: The number of items purchased in an order.

UnitPrice: The price per unit of the product.

Total Sales: The total quantity of items/products sold. -Revenue: The total sales value for the order, calculated as Quantity * UnitPrice

## TOOLS USED
1. Microsoft Excel for Data cleaning transformation and preliminary analysis [DOWNLOAD HERE](http://www.microsoft.com)
3. Structured Query Language(SQL) for Data exctraction and for quering of the Data Download Here
4. Microsoft PowerBI for visualization and Dashboard creation
5. Github for portfolio building


